Add documentation for CI Jobs Failure Analysis in CI Visibility (#28044)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/guides/use_ci_jobs_failure_analysis.md

#### What information is used as input of the LLM model?

If a failed CI job has relevant logs, CI Visibility uses the last 100 relevant log lines as input of the LLM model. In case that a failed CI job does not have relevant logs, CI Visibility will send the last 100 log lines.

Each log line is pre-scanned to redact any potentially sensitive information before being used.

Note that the LLM model can classify errors with similar messages into distinct yet related subdomains.

<u>Example</u>: If the error message is `Cannot connect to docker daemon.`, it is usually categorized under domain:`platform` and subdomain:`network`. However, the LLM model may sometimes classify it under subdomain:`infrastructure` instead.

#### Domains and Subdomains

Errors are categorized with a domain and subdomain:

##### Domains

| Domain   | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | code     | Failures caused by the code that is being built and tested in the CI pipeline. They should be fixed by the developer that modified the code.           |
> | platform | Failures caused by reasons external to the code that is being built and tested. These failures can come from the CI provider, the underlying infrastructure or external dependencies. They are not related to the developer code changes and should often be fixed by the team owning the whole CI system. |
> | unknown  | Used when the logs do not reveal a clear root cause of job failure.                                                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `code`     | Failures caused by the code being built and tested in the CI pipeline. They should be fixed by the developer that modified the code.           |
| `platform` | Failures caused by reasons external to the code being built and tested. These failures can come from the CI provider, the underlying infrastructure, or external dependencies. They are not related to the developer code changes and should often be fixed by the team owning the whole CI system. |
| `unknown`  | Used when the logs do not reveal a clear root cause of job failure.                                                                                                |
```

##### Subdomains

Click on a domain tab to see the correspondent subdomains:

{{< tabs >}}

> {{% tab "code" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Code" %}}
```

> | Subdomain | Description                                     | Examples                                                                                                                   |
> |-----------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | build     | Failures caused by compilation or build errors. | `Compilation error in processor_test.go:28:50`                                                                             |
> | test      | Failures caused by tests failures.              | `7 failed tests. Error: Can't find http.request.headers.x-amzn-trace-id in span's meta.`                                   |
> | quality   | Failures caused by format or lint failures.     | `Detected differences in files after running 'go fmt'. To fix, run 'go fmt' on the affected files and commit the changes.` |
> | security  | Failures caused by security violations.         | `Security violation: Use of weak SHA1 hash for security. Consider usedforsecurity=False.`                                  |

Reviewer: Cutting down on repetitive text. The table will look misaligned in raw Markdown view but we can fix that later in another commit.
```suggestion
| Subdomain | Cause                                     | Examples                                                                                                                   |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `build`     | Compilation or build errors. | `Compilation error in processor_test.go:28:50`                                                                             |
| `test`      | Test failures.              | `7 failed tests. Error: Can't find http.request.headers.x-amzn-trace-id in span's meta.`                                   |
| `quality`   | Format or linting failures.     | `Detected differences in files after running 'go fmt'. To fix, run 'go fmt' on the affected files and commit the changes.` |
| `security`  | Security violations.         | `Security violation: Use of weak SHA1 hash for security. Consider usedforsecurity=False.`                                  |
```

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "platform" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Platform" %}}
```

> | Subdomain      | Description                                                                                         | Examples                                                                                                                                              |
> |----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
> | assembly       | Failures caused by errors in the artifacts generation or assembly errors during a script execution. | `Artifact generation failed due to rejected file 'domains/backend/cart-shopping-proto/mod.info' that exists in the repository.`                       |
> | deployment     | Failures caused by errors during deployments, or related to deployments configurations.             | `Subprocess command returned non-zero exit status 1 during deployment config generation.`                                                             |
> | infrastructure | Failures caused by errors related to the infrastructure where the job was executed.                 | `Invalid docker image reference format for tag 'registry.gitlab.com/cart-shopping/infrastructure/backend-deploy-image:AE/create-kubectl-image'.`      |
> | network        | Failures caused by errors on connectivity with other dependencies.                                  | `Connection refused when accessing localhost:8080.`                                                                                                   |
> | credentials    | Failures caused by errors on authentication, missing or wrong credentials.                          | `Failed to get image auth for docker.elastic.co. No credentials found. Unable to pull image 'docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:7.17.24'.` |
> | dependencies   | Failures caused by errors on installing or updating dependencies required to execute the job.       | `Package 'systemd-container' cannot be installed. Depends on 'libsystemd-shared' v255.4-1ubuntu8.4 but v255.4-1ubuntu8.5 is to be installed.`         |
> | git            | Failures caused by errors executing git commands.                                                   | `Automatic merge failed due to conflicts between branches 'cart-shopping-new-feature' and 'staging'.`                                                 |
> | checks         | Failures caused by errors on required fulfillment of checks during the CI Job execution.            | `Release note not found during changelog validation`                                                                                                  |
> | setup          | Failures caused by errors on setting up the CI Job.                                                 | `Execution failed during the TLS setup or client dialing process.`                                                                                    |
> | script         | Failures caused by syntactic errors in the script in the CI Job.                                    | `No tests ran due to file or directory not found.`                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Subdomain      | Cause                                                                                         | Examples                                                                                                                                              |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `assembly`       | Errors in artifacts generation or assembly errors during a script execution. | `Artifact generation failed due to rejected file 'domains/backend/cart-shopping-proto/mod.info' that exists in the repository.`                       |
| `deployment`     | Errors during deployments, or related to deployments configurations.             | `Subprocess command returned non-zero exit status 1 during deployment config generation.`                                                             |
| `infrastructure` | Errors related to the infrastructure on which the job was executed.                 | `Invalid docker image reference format for tag 'registry.gitlab.com/cart-shopping/infrastructure/backend-deploy-image:AE/create-kubectl-image'.`      |
| `network`        | Errors on connectivity with other dependencies.                                  | `Connection refused when accessing localhost:8080.`                                                                                                   |
| `credentials`    | Errors on authentication; missing or wrong credentials.                          | `Failed to get image auth for docker.elastic.co. No credentials found. Unable to pull image 'docker.elastic.co/elasticsearch/elasticsearch:7.17.24'.` |
| `dependencies`   | Errors on installing or updating dependencies required to execute the job.       | `Package 'systemd-container' cannot be installed. Depends on 'libsystemd-shared' v255.4-1ubuntu8.4 but v255.4-1ubuntu8.5 is to be installed.`         |
| `git`            | Errors executing git commands.                                                   | `Automatic merge failed due to conflicts between branches 'cart-shopping-new-feature' and 'staging'.`                                                 |
| `checks`         | Errors on required fulfillment of checks during the CI job execution.            | `Release note not found during changelog validation`                                                                                                  |
| `setup`          | Errors on setting up the CI job.                                                 | `Execution failed during the TLS setup or client dialing process.`                                                                                    |
| `script`         | Syntactic errors in the script in the CI job.                                    | `No tests ran due to file or directory not found.`                                                                                                    |
```

{{% /tab %}}

> {{% tab "unknown" %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% tab "Unknown" %}}
```

| Subdomain | Description                     | Example                                                 |
|-----------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| unknown   | Error could not be categorized. | `Job failed with exit code 1. View full logs or trace.` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Supported CI providers

CI jobs failure analysis is available for the following CI providers:

* [GitHub Actions][1]
* [GitLab][2]

> Notice that CI Job Logs collection enabled is required and the logs need to be indexed. If you need to setup CI Job Logs collection, check out the setup instructions for your CI provider on the [Pipeline Visibility page][6].

Reviewer: Normally I'd suggest an info alert box here, but we already have one below so a simple bold Note should be good:
```suggestion
**Note:** You must enable CI job logs collection, and the logs need to be indexed. To set up CI job logs collection, select your CI provider on [Pipeline Visibility][6] and follow the instructions to collect job logs.
```

> <div class="alert alert-info">If you are interested in CI jobs failure analysis but your CI provider is not supported yet, fill out <a href="TBD" target="_blank">this form</a>.</div>

Reviewer 2: You can add https://forms.gle/vSrqS5QwitgHf9wG6

## Identify the most recurrent errors in your CI pipelines

> ### Using CI Health page
> 
> You can access to the [CI Health page][3] to see a breakdown of the errors in your CI pipelines split by error domain.
> 
> - Go to [CI Health][3]
> - Click on a CI pipeline.
> - Check the `Breakdown` column in the `Failed Executions` section.
> 
> {{< img src="continuous_integration/ci_health_failed_executions_breakdown.png" alt="CI Job Failure analysis breakdown in CI Health" width="90%">}}
> 
> [CI Health][3] provides a high-level overview of the health and performance of your CI pipelines. It helps DevOps and engineering teams monitor CI jobs, detect failures, and optimize build performance.

Reviewer: Suggested reordering, because the description of the page seemed buried at the end. Also the actions seemed to simple to have them in full steps or bullets, just a sentence would do.
```suggestion
### Using the CI Health page

[CI Health][3] provides a high-level overview of the health and performance of your CI pipelines. It helps DevOps and engineering teams monitor CI jobs, detect failures, and optimize build performance.

On this page, you can see a breakdown of the errors in your CI pipelines split by error domain. Click on a CI pipeline, and check the `Breakdown` column in the `Failed Executions` section.

{{< img src="continuous_integration/ci_health_failed_executions_breakdown.png" alt="CI Job Failure analysis breakdown in CI Health" width="90%">}}
```

### Using facets

> You can use the facets `@error.message`, `@error.domain`, and `@error.subdomain` to identify the most recurrent errors in your CI pipelines. Using those facets, you can create custom dashboards and notebooks for your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the facets `@error.message`, `@error.domain`, and `@error.subdomain` to identify the most recurrent errors in your CI pipelines. Using those facets, you can create custom dashboards and notebooks.
```

{{< img src="continuous_integration/failed_jobs_ai_gen_errors_facets.png" alt="Failed CI Jobs filtered by error.domain and error.subdomain" width="90%">}}

> Notice that these facets are only available using the `ci_level:job` in your queries. In case that the CI jobs failures analysis cannot be computed (e.g., you are not using a supported CI provider), these facets will contain the error information coming from the CI provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These facets are only available when using the `ci_level:job` in a query. If the CI jobs failures analysis can't be computed (for example, if you are not using a supported CI provider), these facets will contain the error information coming from the CI provider.
```

### Using the dashboard template

> You can also import the CI Visibility - CI Jobs Failure Analysis dashboard template:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can import the **CI Visibility - CI Jobs Failure Analysis** dashboard template:
```

> - Open the [civisibility-ci-jobs-failure-analysis-dashboard.json][4] dashboard template and copy the content in the clipboard.
> - Create a [New Dashboard][5] in Datadog.
> - Paste the copied content in the new dashboard.
> - Save the dashboard.

Reviewer: For the New Dashboard link, it'd be great if we could deep link directly into the screen in Datadog where the user creates dashboards. I don't know if that's possible, though.
```suggestion
1. Open the [civisibility-ci-jobs-failure-analysis-dashboard.json][4] dashboard template and copy the contents into the clipboard.
2. Create a [New Dashboard][5] in Datadog.
3. Paste the copied content into the new dashboard.
4. Save the dashboard.
```

This guide explains how to use CI jobs failure analysis to help you determine which are the most common root cause of your failed CI jobs in order to improve the UX in the CI pipelines.

### Understanding CI jobs failure analysis

CI Visibility leverages a LLM model to generate enhanced error messages and categorize them with a domain and subdomain, based on the relevant logs collected from every failed CI job.

{{< img src="continuous_integration/failed_jobs_ai_gen_errors.png" alt="Failed CI jobs with LLM-generated errors" width="90%">}}

#### Domains and Subdomains

Errors are categorized with a domain and subdomain using a LLM model:

##### Domains

| Domain   | Description                                                                                                                                                       |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| code     | Failures caused by the code that is being built and tested in the CI pipeline, and they should be fixed by the developer that launched the CI pipeline.           |

> | platform | Failures caused by the code that is being built and tested. These failures can come from the CI provider itself or they could be caused by external dependencies. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| platform | Failures caused by reasons external to the code that is being built and tested. These failures can come from the CI provider, the underlying infrastructure or external dependencies. They are not related to the developer code changes and should often be fixed by the team owning the whole CI system. |
```

> | unknown  | Used when the logs do not reveal a clear root cause of job failure                                                                                                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| unknown  | Used when the logs do not reveal a clear root cause of job failure.                                                                                               |
```

| setup          | Failures caused by errors on setting up the CI Job.                                                 | `Execution failed during the TLS setup or client dialing process.`                                                                                    |
| script         | Failures caused by syntactic errors in the script in the CI Job.                                    | `No tests ran due to file or directory not found.`                                                                                                    |

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "unknown" %}}

| Subdomain | Description                     | Example                                                 |
|-----------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| unknown   | Error could not be categorized. | `Job failed with exit code 1. View full logs or trace.` |

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### Supported CI providers

CI jobs failure analysis is available for the following CI providers:

* [GitHub Actions][1]
* [GitLab][2]

> Notice that Job Logs collection enabled is required. If you need to setup Job Logs collection, check out the setup instructions for your CI provider on the [Pipeline Visibility page][6].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that CI Job Logs collection needs to be enabled. CI Job logs also need to be indexed. If you need to setup Job Logs collection, check out the setup instructions for your CI provider on the [Pipeline Visibility page][6].
```
